README.md, before:

## dijkstra pathfinder for files

This is a basic implementation of the dijkstra pathfinding algorithm that lets you create a file with components
such as a _start_, an _end_ and multiple _ways_. It will output a file similar to the input file
only containing one of the shortest _ways_ from _start_ to _end_. Additionally in the console output you can find the coordinates
(line and column) of the generated path. With this code it is also possible to run this algorithm in a char matrix.
The open-source graph library by QUALiS-NRW can be found in the `graph` folder and has been used to represent the file internally as a graph. The authors and the documentation can be found directly in the graph files ( https://www.schulentwicklung.nrw.de/lehrplaene/upload/klp_SII/if/MaterialZABI/2020-03-11_Implementationen_von_Klassen_fuer_das_Zentralabitur_ab_2018.zip ).

## Usage
By default this character preset is used with all unsed characters treatet as empty:
- start of path: `-`
- end of path: `+`
- a way: `x`
- unsuable empty space: ` `

This preset can easily be modified in the enum located in the `position.java` file
```java
public enum Position{
    start('-'), way('x'), end('+'), empty(' ');

    private final char letter;

    private Position(char letter) {
        this.letter = letter;
    }

    public char getLetter(){
        return letter;
    }
}
```

Example of an input file:
```txt
-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
            xx         x
    xxxxxx  x          x
    xxxxx+  x          x
    x       x          x
    x       x          x
    x       x          x
    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

```
Generated output file:
```txt
-xxxxxxxxxxxx
            x
            x
    xxxxx+  x
    x       x
    x       x
    x       x
    xxxxxxxxx

```
As you can see paths are not connected diagonally since the graph that is generated by the file only creates edges for characters that are directly next to each ohter.
Two templates can be found in `fileTest.txt` and `fileTest1.txt`.
## Application behaviour
#### No path specified
When no directory is specified the application searches for `fileTest.txt` and creates `output.txt` in the current folder.

Commit message:

-Removed recursion to prevent stackoverflow -Did at least some effort to clean things up a little -Modified graph library to use standard java libraries

README.md, after:

## dijkstra pathfinder for files

This is a basic implementation of the dijkstra pathfinding algorithm that lets you create a file with components
such as a _start_, an _end_ and multiple _ways_. It will output a file similar to the input file
only containing one of the shortest _ways_ from _start_ to _end_. Additionally in the console output you can find the coordinates
(line and column) of the generated path. With this code it is also possible to run this algorithm in a char matrix.
The open-source graph library by QUALiS-NRW can be found in the `graph` folder has been used and modified to represent the file internally as a graph. The authors and the documentation can be found directly in the graph files. https://www.schulentwicklung.nrw.de/lehrplaene/upload/klp_SII/if/MaterialZABI/2020-03-11_Implementationen_von_Klassen_fuer_das_Zentralabitur_ab_2018.zip

No HashMaps or PriorityQueues were used for this implementation to make it beginner-friendly and more accessible to early learners.

## Usage
By default this character preset is used with all unsed characters treatet as empty:
- start of path: `-`
- end of path: `+`
- a way: `x`
- unsuable empty space: ` `

This preset can easily be modified in the enum located in the `position.java` file
```java
public enum Position{
    start('-'), way('x'), end('+'), empty(' ');

    private final char letter;

    private Position(char letter) {
        this.letter = letter;
    }

    public char getLetter(){
        return letter;
    }
}
```

Example of an input file:
```txt
-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
            xx         x
    xxxxxx  x          x
    xxxxx+  x          x
    x       x          x
    x       x          x
    x       x          x
    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

```
Generated output file:
```txt
-xxxxxxxxxxxx
            x
            x
    xxxxx+  x
    x       x
    x       x
    x       x
    xxxxxxxxx

```
As you can see paths are not connected diagonally since the graph that is generated by the file only creates edges for characters that are directly next to each ohter.
Multiple templates can be found named `fileTest.txt`.
